# CS-340
Client/Server Development

## How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
The key to writing programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable is to adhere to the current best practices in software development. While these practices may not always be immediately obvious and can vary depending on the specific context, certain principles remain fundamental. For instance, in the CRUD Python module developed in Project One, modularity was achieved by separating the database interactions from the rest of the application logic. This modular approach allows for easier updates and modifications without requiring a complete code overhaul. Additionally, using descriptive variable and function names, maintaining a consistent coding style, and including comments where necessary all contributed to the high readability of the project. Following these best practices offers several advantages, including increased efficiency due to the reduction of redundant code, easier maintainability because of the modular design, and improved comprehension for anyone who might read the code. Moreover, this approach enhances adaptability, allowing the project to be easily reconfigured for different databases, data models, or other changes.

## How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
As a computer scientist, I strive to create solutions through code that are effective and efficient. With this goal in mind, my approach begins with the discovery of project constraints and requirements. For Project two, this involved forming a deep understanding of the rubric and directions for each piece of the dashboard. In addition, breaking the problem into smaller, incremental pieces allowed me to make small changes to the code, checking for bugs along the way. Thankfully, the lead up to Project Two assisted in this endeavor as pieces were built along the way with weekly project milestones.

For this project, a lot of my previous experience was able to be applied to the solution. However, this project was a bit different than other projects in that it was a full stack development. This required that multiple parts were successfully integrated together and necessitated more attention to detail than usual.

In future projects, the first step that I would take would be to ensure that project requirements are well understood. This would require clear communication with the user in order to get a full understanding of the environment and variables that the project will involve. Additionally, incorporating agile development strategies will allow future projects to adjust to changing client needs and other unknown factors. Finally, I will ensure that my database designs are flexible and scalable to allow for changing requirements so that my solution is able to adapt to changes without a complete overhaul of the code.

## What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists are incredibly important in today's world as so many facets of our reality are affected by or dependent on computer systems. Computer scientists are widely diverse in their skill sets and are responsible for the existence of many of the necessities and conveniences that we use on a daily basis. Nearly every electronic device in existence today has some sort of programming built into it and likely required the expertise of many different computer scientists to be created. In addition, computer scientists are a key part of creating the technology that many businesses are founded upon.

In a project like Project Two, my work would be a key part in creating a system to allow the effective management and utilization of data. By incorporating a well-structured database and  intuitive dashboard, my system would provide a streamlined method to track and obtain key information about animals, allowing them to make informed decisions backed by data. In turn, this would improve efficiency, resource management, and would hopefully provide a boost in the overall success in the company.
